README.md, before:

## Based on johanneslumpe's react-native-selectablesectionlistview, thanks to him for the awesome component!      
99% of this component was done by @johanneslumpe, and I just replaced the deprecated API for newer react native version(>=0.13), and used a little trick to support both iOS and Android platforms.      
    
    
You can find this component on npm:   
```
npm install react-native-alphabetlistview  --save  
```

## Changelog

- **v2.0.0**  
  + Support RN 0.25+.(Thanks [@mbernardeau](https://github.com/mbernardeau)). If you have problem with an earlier version of RN, try v0.1.3.
    
    


# Following is the original readme

A Listview with a sidebar to directly jump to sections.

Please file issues for missing features or bugs.

I apologize for the bad name.

![How it looks](http://lum.pe/sectionlistview.gif)

## Usage

The most basic way to use this component is as follows:

```javascript
var AlphabetListView = require('react-native-alphabetlistview');

// inside your render function
<AlphabetListView
  data={yourData}
  cell={YourCellComponent}
  cellHeight={100}
  sectionHeaderHeight={22.5}
/>
```

You can find a more complete example below

## Props

### SelectableSectionsListView

All props are passed through to the underlying `ListView`, so you can specify all the available props for `ListView` normally - except the following, which are defined internally and will be overwritten:

* `onScroll`
* `onScrollAnimationEnd`
* `dataSource`
* `renderRow`
* `renderSectionHeader`

#### data
`array|object`, **required**  
The data to render in the listview

#### hideSectionList
`boolean`  
Whether to show the section listing or not. *Note: If the data your are providing to
the component is an array, the section list will automatically be hidden.*

#### getSectionTitle
`function`  
Function to provide titles for the section headers

#### getSectionListTitle
`function`  
Function to provide titles for the section list items

#### onCellSelect
`function`  
Callback which should be called when a cell has been selected

#### onScrollToSection
`function`  
Callback which should be called when the user scrolls to a section

#### cell
`function` **required**  
The cell component to render for each row

#### sectionListItem
`function`  
A custom component to render for each section list item

#### sectionHeader
`function`  
A custom component to render for each section header

#### footer
`function`  
A custom component to render as footer  
**This props takes precedence over `renderFooter`**

#### renderFooter
`function`  
A custom function which has to return a valid React element, which will be
used as footer.

#### header
`function`  
A custom component to render as header  
**This props takes precedence over `renderHeader`**

#### renderHeader
`function`  
A custom function which has to return a valid React element, which will be used as header.

#### headerHeight
`number`  
The height of the rendered header element.  
**Is required if a header element is used, so the positions can be calculated correctly**

#### cellProps
`object`  
An object containing additional props, which will be passed to each cell component

#### sectionHeaderHeight
`number` **required**  
The height of the section header component

#### cellHeight
`number` **required**  
The height of the cell component

#### useDynamicHeights
`boolean`  
Whether to determine the y position to scroll to by calculating header and cell heights or by using the UIManager to measure the position of the destination element. Defaults to `false`  
**This is an experimental feature. For it to work properly you will most likely have to experiment with different values for `scrollRenderAheadDistance`, depending on the size of your data set.**

#### updateScrollState
`boolean`  
Whether to set the current y offset as state and pass it to each cell during re-rendering

#### style
`object|number`  
Styles to pass to the container

#### sectionListStyle
`object|number`  
Styles to pass to the section list container

---
### Cell component

These props are automatically passed to your component. In addition to these, your cell will receive all props which you specified in the object you passed as `cellProps` prop to the listview.

#### index
`number`  
The index of the cell inside the current section

#### sectionId
`string`  
The id of the parent section

#### isFirst
`boolean`  
Whether the cell is the first in the section

#### isLast
`boolean`  
Whether the cell is the last in the section

#### item
`mixed`  
The item to render

#### offsetY
`number`  
The current y offset of the list view  
**If you do not specify `updateScrollState={true}` for the list component, this props will always be 0**

#### onSelect
`function`  
The function which should be called when a cell is being selected

---
### Section list item component

These props are automatically passed to your component

#### sectionId
`string`  
The id of the parent section

#### title
`string`  
The title for this section. Either the return value of `getSectionListTitle` or the same value as `sectionId`

## Example

```javascript
class SectionHeader extends Component {
  render() {
    // inline styles used for brevity, use a stylesheet when possible
    var textStyle = {
      textAlign:'center',
      color:'#fff',
      fontWeight:'700',
      fontSize:16
    };

    var viewStyle = {
      backgroundColor: '#ccc'
    };
    return (
      <View style={viewStyle}>
        <Text style={textStyle}>{this.props.title}</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

class SectionItem extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Text style={{color:'#f00'}}>{this.props.title}</Text>
    );
  }
}

class Cell extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View style={{height:30}}>
        <Text>{this.props.item}</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

class MyComponent extends Component {

  constructor(props, context) {
    super(props, context);

    this.state = {
      data: {
        A: ['some','entries','are here'],
        B: ['some','entries','are here'],
        C: ['some','entries','are here'],
        D: ['some','entries','are here'],
        E: ['some','entries','are here'],
        F: ['some','entries','are here'],
        G: ['some','entries','are here'],
        H: ['some','entries','are here'],
        I: ['some','entries','are here'],
        J: ['some','entries','are here'],
        K: ['some','entries','are here'],
        L: ['some','entries','are here'],
        M: ['some','entries','are here'],
        N: ['some','entries','are here'],
        O: ['some','entries','are here'],
        P: ['some','entries','are here'],
        Q: ['some','entries','are here'],
        R: ['some','entries','are here'],
        S: ['some','entries','are here'],
        T: ['some','entries','are here'],
        U: ['some','entries','are here'],
        V: ['some','entries','are here'],
        W: ['some','entries','are here'],
        X: ['some','entries','are here'],
        Y: ['some','entries','are here'],
        Z: ['some','entries','are here'],
      }
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <AlphabetListView
        data={this.state.data}
        cell={Cell}
        cellHeight={30}
        sectionListItem={SectionItem}
        sectionHeader={SectionHeader}
        sectionHeaderHeight={22.5}
      />
    );
  }
}

```

Commit message:

add sortOn prop to sort and key array of items alphabetically

README.md, after:

## Based on johanneslumpe's react-native-selectablesectionlistview, thanks to him for the awesome component!      
99% of this component was done by @johanneslumpe, and I just replaced the deprecated API for newer react native version(>=0.13), and used a little trick to support both iOS and Android platforms.      
    
    
You can find this component on npm:   
```
npm install react-native-alphabetlistview  --save  
```

## Changelog

- **v2.0.0**  
  + Support RN 0.25+.(Thanks [@mbernardeau](https://github.com/mbernardeau)). If you have problem with an earlier version of RN, try v0.1.3.
    
    


# Following is the original readme

A Listview with a sidebar to directly jump to sections.

Please file issues for missing features or bugs.

I apologize for the bad name.

![How it looks](http://lum.pe/sectionlistview.gif)

## Usage

The most basic way to use this component is as follows:

```javascript
var AlphabetListView = require('react-native-alphabetlistview');

// inside your render function
<AlphabetListView
  data={yourData}
  cell={YourCellComponent}
  cellHeight={100}
  sectionHeaderHeight={22.5}
/>
```

You can find a more complete example below

## Props

### SelectableSectionsListView

All props are passed through to the underlying `ListView`, so you can specify all the available props for `ListView` normally - except the following, which are defined internally and will be overwritten:

* `onScroll`
* `onScrollAnimationEnd`
* `dataSource`
* `renderRow`
* `renderSectionHeader`

#### data
`array|object`, **required**  
The data to render in the listview

#### sortOn
`string`
If this exists the data array will be sorted on this field into an object of alphabetically keyed arrays

#### hideSectionList
`boolean`  
Whether to show the section listing or not. *Note: If the data your are providing to
the component is an array, the section list will automatically be hidden.*

#### getSectionTitle
`function`  
Function to provide titles for the section headers

#### getSectionListTitle
`function`  
Function to provide titles for the section list items

#### onCellSelect
`function`  
Callback which should be called when a cell has been selected

#### onScrollToSection
`function`  
Callback which should be called when the user scrolls to a section

#### cell
`function` **required**  
The cell component to render for each row

#### sectionListItem
`function`  
A custom component to render for each section list item

#### sectionHeader
`function`  
A custom component to render for each section header

#### footer
`function`  
A custom component to render as footer  
**This props takes precedence over `renderFooter`**

#### renderFooter
`function`  
A custom function which has to return a valid React element, which will be
used as footer.

#### header
`function`  
A custom component to render as header  
**This props takes precedence over `renderHeader`**

#### renderHeader
`function`  
A custom function which has to return a valid React element, which will be used as header.

#### headerHeight
`number`  
The height of the rendered header element.  
**Is required if a header element is used, so the positions can be calculated correctly**

#### cellProps
`object`  
An object containing additional props, which will be passed to each cell component

#### sectionHeaderHeight
`number` **required**  
The height of the section header component

#### cellHeight
`number` **required**  
The height of the cell component

#### useDynamicHeights
`boolean`  
Whether to determine the y position to scroll to by calculating header and cell heights or by using the UIManager to measure the position of the destination element. Defaults to `false`  
**This is an experimental feature. For it to work properly you will most likely have to experiment with different values for `scrollRenderAheadDistance`, depending on the size of your data set.**

#### updateScrollState
`boolean`  
Whether to set the current y offset as state and pass it to each cell during re-rendering

#### style
`object|number`  
Styles to pass to the container

#### sectionListStyle
`object|number`  
Styles to pass to the section list container

---
### Cell component

These props are automatically passed to your component. In addition to these, your cell will receive all props which you specified in the object you passed as `cellProps` prop to the listview.

#### index
`number`  
The index of the cell inside the current section

#### sectionId
`string`  
The id of the parent section

#### isFirst
`boolean`  
Whether the cell is the first in the section

#### isLast
`boolean`  
Whether the cell is the last in the section

#### item
`mixed`  
The item to render

#### offsetY
`number`  
The current y offset of the list view  
**If you do not specify `updateScrollState={true}` for the list component, this props will always be 0**

#### onSelect
`function`  
The function which should be called when a cell is being selected

---
### Section list item component

These props are automatically passed to your component

#### sectionId
`string`  
The id of the parent section

#### title
`string`  
The title for this section. Either the return value of `getSectionListTitle` or the same value as `sectionId`

## Example

```javascript
class SectionHeader extends Component {
  render() {
    // inline styles used for brevity, use a stylesheet when possible
    var textStyle = {
      textAlign:'center',
      color:'#fff',
      fontWeight:'700',
      fontSize:16
    };

    var viewStyle = {
      backgroundColor: '#ccc'
    };
    return (
      <View style={viewStyle}>
        <Text style={textStyle}>{this.props.title}</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

class SectionItem extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Text style={{color:'#f00'}}>{this.props.title}</Text>
    );
  }
}

class Cell extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View style={{height:30}}>
        <Text>{this.props.item}</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

class MyComponent extends Component {

  constructor(props, context) {
    super(props, context);

    this.state = {
      data: [
        {fname: "Frank"},
        {fname: "Bob"},
        {fname: "John"},
        {fname: "Jim"},
        {fname: "Kathy"},
        {fname: "Kim"},
        {fname: "Amber"},
        {fname: "Alice"},
        {fname: "Anna"},
        {fname: "Gary"},
        {fname: "Cameron"},
        {fname: "Lewis"},
        {fname: "Larry"},
        {fname: "Mary"},
        {fname: "Hank"}
      ]
    }
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <AlphabetListView
        data={this.state.data}
        cell={Cell}
        cellHeight={30}
        sectionListItem={SectionItem}
        sectionHeader={SectionHeader}
        sectionHeaderHeight={22.5}
        sortOn="fname"
      />
    );
  }
}

```
